Step 1 Measure threats and set goals
Theft or loss of personal devices
 Use of personal devices means that employees take them home. Especially if they are their personal mobile phones. If these devices are lost or stolen this could simply be a nuisance or a major issue. If employees are not utilizing proper security protocols, they could be handing confidential information to potential outsider threats.
To protect against this threat, the employees are encouraged to keep all apps that are used for work secured with strong passwords and keeping an information backed up to ensure easy recovery in the event of loss.
To ensure that employees apps are secure, password parameters can be set. Information back ups can be set up on schedule.
The goal would be that all employees have these measures set up on their personal devices.
Improper mobile management 
 With employees using personal devices, when they leave, they still have access to information they worked on while using their own devices. 
To ensure that data acquired on personal device do not go home with former employees, there isn’t much that can expected of the employees.
HR should have access to apps so that they can end user accounts for employees who no longer work for the company and that any backed up data is scrubbed those accounts.
The goal would be that employees have no access to apps before stepping off company property for the final time.
Malware
 When using company supplied devices, they can be setup to only be used for work purposes. Employees using their own devices will be susceptible to malware threats as they use them to do many more things than just work. 
Employees using personal devices for work are encouraged to act as if their personal devices are work devices. They should treat all downloads as possible threats for malware that could infect their devices and put work data at risk.
Training can be conducted to educate employees on the dangers of malware and how to prevent attacks.
Here we would like to see less than 10% of employees download malware on personal devices and less than 5% of work time spent on solving malware issues.



Step 2 Involving the Right People 
Corporate 
 Working with corporate heads there needs to be set into place measures to protect company data. Working with corporate protocols can be determined, goals made, and education programs set up.
IT
 Working with IT applications can be created to help employees using personal devices. IT can put into place the protocols determined by corporate. They can set up App credential parameters that ensure employees are using secure passwords. IT can also set up cloud backups for data.
HR
 HR can track employee education matrixes to ensure that employees are current on all education plans. Employees that split ways with the company can be removed from applications and data clouds by HR as well to ensure employees can no longer access company data. 
Managers
 Management works the most closely with frontline workers and can be the first line of ensuring that employees are encouraged to use safe practices when working with company data. They are also responsible for reporting any incidents or breaches that occur and how or why they occurred. This ensures that protocols and training used to protect data can be measured in their effectiveness.
Employees 
 Employees can follow protocols and attend education classes in order to do their part in protecting company data. They can also be encouraged to add their input on methods to protect company data.

Step 3 Training plan
 Training should be implemented in two phases. First an initial training class can be used to instruct employees on expectations and protocols. Secondly there can be continuing education to keep employees up to date on new threats and refresher training.
 In training, protocols can be taught and explained to employees on how they ensure data is protected. Expectations can be laid out to employees on how they are expected to protect company data.
Before training is implemented all cases of incidents and breaches recorded can be used to measure against cases at a later date to see if training has had the desired effect.
